[EDU-2856] Add guide: How to stage application through hosts (EN) (#392)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/guides/edge-application/ea-test-locally/index.mdx

---
title: How to stage an edge application through the hosts file

> description: By changing your device name resolution in the hosts file, you can test your application on the edge before pointing your domain to Azion. You can find the edge node IP of your application, associate the IP with a domain, and stage the application locally through etc/hosts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: By changing your device's name resolution in the hosts file, you can test your application on the edge before pointing your domain to Azion.
```

Reviewer: Just to be shorter

meta_tags: stage, host, hostname, domain, etc, hosts, name resolution, test
namespace: documentation_how_to_test_edge_application_hosts
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/how-to-stage-edge-application-through-hosts-file/
---

> Before you [point your domain to Azion](/en/documentation/products/guides/point-domain-to-azion/), you can stage run your application on the edge by changing the name resolution of your hosts file. This way, you'll have a chance to test any changes and correct bugs before you publish your application using your custom domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you [point your domain to Azion](/en/documentation/products/guides/point-domain-to-azion/), you can stage running your application on the edge by changing the name resolution of your `hosts` file. This way, you'll have a chance to test any changes and correct bugs before you publish your application using your custom domain.
```

:::note
This guide describes how you can test your application's hostname on the edge before pointing your domain to Azion. To run an application in localhost, use the [Azion CLI](/en/documentation/products/azion-cli/overview/).
:::

> 
> You'll need:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

---

## Requirements
You'll need:
```

- An edge application and a [configured domain](/en/documentation/products/guides/configure-a-domain/).
- A working internet connection.

> - Sudo privileges in your device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `sudo` privileges in your device.
```

- A command line tool, such as Windows PowerShell or Mac Terminal.
- For Windows, a text-editing tool such as Notepad.

> 
> ## Step 1. Find your edge node IP

Reviewer: ```suggestion

---

## Step 1. Find your edge node IP
```

> To stage an application on the edge through the hosts file, you must redirect your device's DNS resolution to an edge node. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To stage an application on the edge through the `hosts` file, you must redirect your device's DNS resolution to an edge node. 
```

First, you need to find the IPs of the edge node where your application is being served. The node IP will change based on the edge node associated with your current location.

There are several ways to find your edge node IP, but the most common one is to use the `host` command paired with your Azion domain.

The following command can be run on any Unix-based or Windows operating systems:

```bash
host xxxxxxxxxx.map.azionedge.net
```

> You will receive a response containing the Azion domain and the IP address of the edge node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll receive a response containing the Azion domain and the IP address of the edge node:
```

```bash
xxxxxxxxxx.map.azionedge.net has address 200.0.0.0
```

> 
> ## Step 2. Associate the edge node IP to a domain

Reviewer: ```suggestion

---

## Step 2. Associate the edge node IP to a domain
```

> Now you must associate the edge node IP to one or more CNAMEs that you have specified for your domain in your host configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you must associate the edge node IP to one or more CNAMEs that you've specified for your domain in your host configuration.
```

> Every computer device has a `etc/hosts` file that maps IP addresses to domains. When you associate the edge node IP to the CNAME you assigned to your domain with Azion in your hosts file, you are forcing your computer's DNS resolution to access that domain through the edge node and not through public DNS servers. This allows you to stage your application locally as if it was already deployed to your custom domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every computer device has a `etc/hosts` file that maps IP addresses to domains. When you associate the edge node IP to the CNAME assigned to your domain in your `hosts` file, you're forcing your computer's DNS resolution to access that domain through the edge node and not through public DNS servers. This allows you to stage your application locally as if it was already deployed to your custom domain.
```

:::caution[warning]
For the association to take place, you must first [configure your domain](/en/documentation/products/guides/configure-a-domain/) and add at least one custom domain CNAME to the domain's CNAME list.
:::

### Windows

1. Launch **Notepad** or any other text editing tool.
2. Open the `hosts` file, which should be located in `C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\`.

>   - Note that the hosts file is located in whichever drive Windows was installed and thus may not be the C: drive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Note that the `hosts` file is located in whichever drive Windows was installed and thus may not be the C: drive.
```

3. Add a new line under the `localhost` line.
4. Paste the edge node IP into the first column.
5. Add the CNAME you configured for the Azion domain to the second column. For example:

  ```bash
  200.0.0.0    yourdomain.com
  200.0.0.0    yourdomain.org
  ```

6. Click on **File** > **Save**.

### Linux

1. Launch the terminal.
   - In most Linux distributions, the terminal is located uder **Applications** > **Utilities** > **Terminal**.
2. Type the following command to launch the `vim` text editor:

  ```bash
  sudo vim /etc/hosts
  ```

3. Confirm your identity by typing your system password and press **Enter**.
4. Use the arrow keys to navigate through the file.

> 5. Add a new line under localhost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Add a new line under `localhost`.
```

6. Paste the edge node IP into the first column.
7. Add the CNAME you configured for the Azion domain in the second column.

  ```bash
  200.0.0.0  yourdomain.com
  200.0.0.0  yourdomain.org
  ```

8. Press **Esc** to switch to command mode.
7. Type `:x` and press enter to save and exit the `vim` terminal editor.

### Mac

1. Use the **Launchpad** to search for the **Terminal** app.
2. Open the terminal and type the following command to launch the `nano` text editor:

```bash
sudo nano /private/etc/hosts
```

3. Confirm your identity by typing your system password and press **Enter**.
4. Use the arrow keys to navigate through the file.

> 5. Add a new line under localhost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Add a new line under `localhost`.
```

6. Paste the edge node ID into the first column.
7. Add the CNAME you configured for the Azion domain in the second column.

For example:

```bash
200.0.0.0   yourdomain.com
200.0.0.0   yourdomain.org
```

8. Press **Ctrl+O** to save your changes.
9. Press **Ctrl+X** to exit the `nano` text editor.

:::tip

> If you wish, you may add comments to your etc/hosts file to track your changes. You can add a comment using the `#<your comment here>` notation. Every character in line to the right of the pound symbol (#) will not be processed by the `hosts` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may add comments to your `etc/hosts` file to track your changes. You can add a comment using the `#<your comment here>` notation. Every character in line to the right of the pound symbol (#) won't be processed by the `hosts` file.
```

:::

## Step 3. Stage your application

Once your `hosts` file is configured, you'll be able to access your application through the CNAMEs you provided using any browser in your device.

> :::important

Author: ```suggestion
:::caution[warning]
```

> Most browsers keep DNS resolution in cache. That means that if you have previously accessed your application using the CNAME you configured in the domain, your browser may serve your application using the IP from cache and not from the edge node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most browsers keep DNS resolution in cache. That means that if you've previously accessed your application using the CNAME you configured in the domain, your browser may serve your application using the IP from cache and not from the edge node.
```

:::

To avoid your browser from resolving your host name through cache, launch your browser using incognito mode, use a different browser, or clear browser cache before accessing the domain.

> In the absence of cache, if your original application is already served on the CNAME you assigned but has not undergone [domain record modifications](/en/documentation/products/guides/point-domain-to-azion/#step-2-modify-domain-records) in the DNS provider, the hosts file will serve the edge application using the custom host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the absence of cache, if your original application is already served on the CNAME you assigned but hasn't undergone [domain record modifications](/en/documentation/products/guides/point-domain-to-azion/#step-2-modify-domain-records) in the DNS provider, the `hosts` file will serve the edge application using the custom host.
```

---
title: How to stage an edge application through the hosts file

> description: By changing your device's name resolution in the hosts file, you can test your application on the edge before pointing your domain to Azion.

Author: ```suggestion
description: By changing your device's name resolution in the hosts file under etc/hosts, you can test your application on the edge before pointing your domain to Azion.
```

meta_tags: stage, host, hostname, domain, etc, hosts, name resolution, test
namespace: documentation_how_to_test_edge_application_hosts

> permalink: /documentation/products/guides/how-to-stage-edge-application-through-hosts-file/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/stage-edge-application-through-hosts-file/
```

---

Before you [point your domain to Azion](/en/documentation/products/guides/point-domain-to-azion/), you can stage running your application on the edge by changing the name resolution of your `hosts` file. This way, you'll have a chance to test any changes and correct bugs before you publish your application using your custom domain.

:::note
This guide describes how you can test your application's hostname on the edge before pointing your domain to Azion. To run an application in localhost, use the [Azion CLI](/en/documentation/products/azion-cli/overview/).
:::

---

> ## Requirements

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Requirements

```

You'll need:

- An edge application and a [configured domain](/en/documentation/products/guides/configure-a-domain/).
- A working internet connection.
- `sudo` privileges in your device.
- A command line tool, such as Windows PowerShell or Mac Terminal.
- For Windows, a text-editing tool such as Notepad.

---

> ## Step 1. Find your edge node IP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 1. Finding your edge node IP
```

To stage an application on the edge through the `hosts` file, you must redirect your device's DNS resolution to an edge node. 

First, you need to find the IPs of the edge node where your application is being served. The node IP will change based on the edge node associated with your current location.

There are several ways to find your edge node IP, but the most common one is to use the `host` command paired with your Azion domain.

The following command can be run on any Unix-based or Windows operating systems:

```bash
host xxxxxxxxxx.map.azionedge.net
```

You'll receive a response containing the Azion domain and the IP address of the edge node:

```bash
xxxxxxxxxx.map.azionedge.net has address 200.0.0.0
```

---

> ## Step 2. Associate the edge node IP to a domain

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 2. Associating the edge node IP to a domain
```

Now you must associate the edge node IP to one or more CNAMEs that you've specified for your domain in your host configuration.

> Every computer device has a `etc/hosts` file that maps IP addresses to domains. When you associate the edge node IP to the CNAME assigned to your domain in your `hosts` file, you're forcing your computer's DNS resolution to access that domain through the edge node and not through public DNS servers. This allows you to stage your application locally as if it was already deployed to your custom domain.

Reviewer 2: será que isso deveria estar em uma reference e não no guia?

Author: Não sei onde entraria se estivesse 🤔 não é necessariamente sobre o produto Domains

Author: Mas daria pra deixar lá sim!

  - Note that the `hosts` file is located in whichever drive Windows was installed and thus may not be the C: drive.
3. Add a new line under the `localhost` line.
4. Paste the edge node IP into the first column.
5. Add the CNAME you configured for the Azion domain to the second column. For example:

  ```bash
  200.0.0.0    yourdomain.com
  200.0.0.0    yourdomain.org
  ```

6. Click on **File** > **Save**.

### Linux

1. Launch the terminal.
   - In most Linux distributions, the terminal is located uder **Applications** > **Utilities** > **Terminal**.
2. Type the following command to launch the `vim` text editor:

  ```bash
  sudo vim /etc/hosts
  ```

3. Confirm your identity by typing your system password and press **Enter**.
4. Use the arrow keys to navigate through the file.
5. Add a new line under `localhost`.
6. Paste the edge node IP into the first column.
7. Add the CNAME you configured for the Azion domain in the second column.

  ```bash
  200.0.0.0  yourdomain.com
  200.0.0.0  yourdomain.org
  ```

8. Press **Esc** to switch to command mode.
7. Type `:x` and press enter to save and exit the `vim` terminal editor.

> ### Mac

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### macOS
```

1. Use the **Launchpad** to search for the **Terminal** app.
2. Open the terminal and type the following command to launch the `nano` text editor:

```bash
sudo nano /private/etc/hosts
```

3. Confirm your identity by typing your system password and press **Enter**.
4. Use the arrow keys to navigate through the file.
5. Add a new line under `localhost`.
6. Paste the edge node ID into the first column.
7. Add the CNAME you configured for the Azion domain in the second column.

For example:

```bash
200.0.0.0   yourdomain.com
200.0.0.0   yourdomain.org
```

8. Press **Ctrl+O** to save your changes.
9. Press **Ctrl+X** to exit the `nano` text editor.

:::tip
You may add comments to your `etc/hosts` file to track your changes. You can add a comment using the `#<your comment here>` notation. Every character in line to the right of the pound symbol (#) won't be processed by the `hosts` file.
:::

> ## Step 3. Stage your application

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 3. Staging your application
```

7. Add the CNAME you configured for the Azion domain in the second column.

  ```bash
  200.0.0.0  yourdomain.com
  200.0.0.0  yourdomain.org
  ```

8. Press **Esc** to switch to command mode.
7. Type `:x` and press enter to save and exit the `vim` terminal editor.

### macOS

1. Use the **Launchpad** to search for the **Terminal** app.
2. Open the terminal and type the following command to launch the `nano` text editor:

```bash
sudo nano /private/etc/hosts
```

3. Confirm your identity by typing your system password and press **Enter**.
4. Use the arrow keys to navigate through the file.
5. Add a new line under `localhost`.
6. Paste the edge node ID into the first column.
7. Add the CNAME you configured for the Azion domain in the second column.

For example:

```bash
200.0.0.0   yourdomain.com
200.0.0.0   yourdomain.org
```

8. Press **Ctrl+O** to save your changes.
9. Press **Ctrl+X** to exit the `nano` text editor.

:::tip
You may add comments to your `etc/hosts` file to track your changes. You can add a comment using the `#<your comment here>` notation. Every character in line to the right of the pound symbol (#) won't be processed by the `hosts` file.
:::

> 
> ## Step 3. Staging your application

Reviewer: ```suggestion

---

## Step 3. Staging your application
```
